toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/pingsender.rst, before:

Ping Sender
===========

The ping sender is a minimalistic program whose sole purpose is to deliver a
telemetry ping. It accepts a single parameter which is the URL the ping will
be sent to (as an HTTP POST command) and once started it will wait to read the
ping contents on its stdin stream. Once the ping has been read from stdin the
ping sender will try to post it once, exiting with a non-zero value if it
fails.

The content of the HTTP request is *gzip* encoded. The request comes with a few
additional headers:

- ``User-Agent: pingsender/1.0``
- ``X-PingSender-Version: 1.0``. Even if this data is already included by the user agent, this
  header is needed as the pipeline is not currently storing use agent strings and doing that
  could require storing a fair chunk of redundant extra data. We need to discern between pings
  sent using the ping sender and the ones sent using the normal flow, at the end of the
  ingestion pipeline, for validation purposes.

The ping sender relies on libcurl for Linux and Mac build and on WinInet for
Windows ones for its HTTP functionality. It currently ignores Firefox or the
system proxy configuration.

In non-debug mode the ping sender doesn't print anything, not even on error,
this is done deliberately to prevent startling the user on architectures such
as Windows that would open a seperate console window just to display the
program output. If you need runtime information to be printed out compile the
ping sender with debuggging enabled.

The pingsender is not supported on Firefox for Android at the moment
(see `bug 1335917 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1335917>`_)

Commit message:

Bug 1345153 - When the pingsender fails to send a ping, persist it to disk so that it can be sent later via regular telemetry. r=chutten, r=ted, a=gchang
Currently we hand over a crash ping to the pingsender via a pipe; if the
pingsender fails to send the ping we rely on the CrashManager assembling and
sending one instead. Since the crashmanager is not aware of whether the ping
was sent or not this causes duplication on the server side. To solve this
problem we save the ping to disk instead, read it from the pingsender and
delete the file only if the ping was sent. In this scenario the CrashManager
will know that a ping was already sent and will not send a new one.

This patch removes all the code used to deal with pipes between the telemetry,
crashreporter and pingsender code and also tries to cut down the amount of
platform-specific code we have in this machinery.

MozReview-Commit-ID: ASm2jnDagCK

toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/pingsender.rst, after:

Ping Sender
===========

The ping sender is a minimalistic program whose sole purpose is to deliver a
telemetry ping. It accepts the following parameters:

- the URL the ping will be sent to (as an HTTP POST command);
- the path to an uncompressed file holding the ping contents.

Once the ping has been read from disk the ping sender will try to post it once, exiting
with a non-zero value if it fails. If sending the ping succeeds then the ping file is removed.

The content of the HTTP request is *gzip* encoded. The request comes with a few
additional headers:

- ``User-Agent: pingsender/1.0``
- ``X-PingSender-Version: 1.0``. Even if this data is already included by the user agent, this
  header is needed as the pipeline is not currently storing use agent strings and doing that
  could require storing a fair chunk of redundant extra data. We need to discern between pings
  sent using the ping sender and the ones sent using the normal flow, at the end of the
  ingestion pipeline, for validation purposes.

.. note::

  The ping sender relies on libcurl for Linux and Mac build and on WinInet for
  Windows ones for its HTTP functionality. It currently ignores Firefox or the
  system proxy configuration.

In non-debug mode the ping sender doesn't print anything, not even on error,
this is done deliberately to prevent startling the user on architectures such
as Windows that would open a seperate console window just to display the
program output. If you need runtime information to be printed out compile the
ping sender with debugging enabled.

The pingsender is not supported on Firefox for Android at the moment
(see `bug 1335917 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1335917>`_)
